In this video, I want to discuss inheritance with generics and top parameters, so it's very important
to grasp this concept because you'll see it played out in code segments of various forms, in exam questions.
So it can be said that an integer is a number because an integer is a subtype of no.
It does not, however, mean that a generic class of integers so that's integer in brackets is a subtype
of a generic class of no with no Renagel brackets.
So in fact, the opposite is true.
The generic class of integer, again with indeterminable brackets, is not a subtype of generic class
of no number in brackets, regardless of whether or not integer and number are related.
Generic class is a container for any specified element.
A container of one element cannot be said to be the same as a container of another element, only that
they contain any type or structure is the feature in common.
Please make this clear, I consider this following table we've got to type, whether it's a subtype
of and whether it's not a subtype.
So the first example there is Interchurch.
Well, that's a subtype of no object moving on to a list of integers.
So into two brackets.
Well, that is a subtype of object, but it's not a subtype of a list of numbers.
So with no Eneko brackets and a list of integer, so integer and brackets is a subtype of a list of
integer that's integer brackets as well as object.
But it's not a subtype of an array list of number, again, with no Renagel brackets.
In the last example, a list of arithmetic exception.
So I guess the take exception in brackets is a subtype of object.
But you can see there there's three examples where it's not a subtype of a list of Strobl exception
and runtime exception.
The rules of polymorphism, which are probably second nature to you, have to be given a second look
when you're dealing with generics, but swing it back to our code.
We're going to create a new class deal.
We're going to call this generic inheritance.
And of course, we're our generics and collections project.
But so this class has got three static methods they're looking at right now, but the first one of the
parameter of no, a second one with a perimeter of top of a list of numbers are no and brackets.
And the third parameter with the perimeter of a list of integers that integer in angle brackets and
moving on down to the main method.
We're using an integer variable or assigning it to a number variable with down casting a number variable
to an integer where it's no, the number of variable is assigned an integer that we're invoking a method
that takes a number parameter.
This code compiles.
I'm going to run it.
And we can see they are put down the bottom of the screen, there's no surprises here.
It's basic inheritance features and polymorphism.
Next we're going to do is a pen, some code to this method.
So here I am, creating a generic array list typed to integer and attempting the same types of things
I did previously, assigning, casting and passing the array list of integer or in a list of number
has been declared the winner each instance they're starting on line forty five.
We've got a compiler error, but each of them has got a different error.
We have a look on line forty five looking for the right list of number and it's been provided with a
list of integer.
Forty eight inconvertible types current cast to the list of number.
Total list of integer and the last one line fifty two.
The quiet type is the relative number and found an array list of integer safer than the three different
errors.
The conclusion is the same.
An array list of integer integer Renagel brackets cannot be used in place of an array list of number.
Again, the number in brackets.
So generic wild cards are a way to inform the compiler that the parameterized generic class contains
a valid relationship to the receiving element.
So this case, I've got a local variable and a method parameter both declared as an unlisted number,
which are called a square peg, where I'm trying to stuff it into the list of integer, the round hole
and hits, we're getting errors.
So let's make a change here.
Going to change this line along forty four and forty five and replace that with this code.
So what I've done here is added a wildcard with an upper bound, meaning that now any Israelis containing
a class that is a number can be assigned to this variable.
Now, that removed one Karpal error, but I still have an error on the invocation of method two in this
code is hardly a line 53.
So I'm going to alter method two.
So we're going to get back up to method to.
Because his definition, they're on line 18, they're going to change that.
To the following code.
So what I've done is the same thing with a method parameter as I did with the local variable declaration,
I'm declaring that the method can accept an array list containing any type of no object.
And obviously, if we go back down and look at our main method, we could see the indication lot of
54 is now valid.
There's no compiler errors and I can run the code.
And things now work as expected.
So continuing on, let's play some more cards now into our mind, mythic.
So with this code, I'm assigning it a list of integer to a list of integer casting, a list of integer
to array list of integer, knowing that my variable house is an array of integer and I pass an array
list of related to a method with a parameter is declared as a list of integer.
You can see we've got no compilation errors if I run this card now.
You can say that it's worked.
The terms that are released of Integer, so ed and brackets is a valid subtype for a list of integer.
So let's end the video here.
And in the next one, I want to start looking at standard naming conventions.
See you in the next video.